rl-2311: Add release notes on lib (#268871)
NixOS/nixpkgs: nixos/doc/manual/release-notes/rl-2311.section.md

  now always evaluates the initial accumulator argument first.
- `lib.generators.toKeyValue` now supports the `indent` attribute in its first argument.

### Module system {#sec-release-23.11-lib-module-system}
- Options in the `options` module argument now have the `declarationPositions` attribute
  containing the position where the option was declared:
  ```
  $ nix repl -f '<nixpkgs/nixos>'
  [...]
  nix-repl> :p options.environment.systemPackages.declarationPositions
  [ {
    column = 7;
    file = "/nix/store/vm9zf9wvfd628cchj0hdij1g4hzjrcz9-source/nixos/modules/config/system-path.nix";
    line = 62;
  } ]
  ```

  Not to be confused with `definitionsWithLocations`, which is the same but for option _definitions_.
- `lib.types.string` is now fully deprecated and gives a warning when used.
- Improved error message for option declarations missing `mkOption`
- The internal NixOS transition to Markdown documentation is now complete,
  as such, these functions are not necessary anymore:
  - `mkAliasOptionModuleMD` is now just an alias to `mkAliasOptionModule`
  - `mkPackageOptionMD` is now just an alias to `mkPackageOption`
  - `mdDoc` is now the same as its argument

>   - `literalDocBook` is now removed after deprecation in 22.11

Author: Ping @pennae

  [`removePrefix`](https://nixos.org/manual/nixpkgs/unstable#function-library-lib.path.removePrefix),
  [`splitRoot`](https://nixos.org/manual/nixpkgs/unstable#function-library-lib.path.splitRoot),
  [`subpath.components`](https://nixos.org/manual/nixpkgs/unstable#function-library-lib.path.subpath.components)
- `lib.strings`:
  [`replicate`](https://nixos.org/manual/nixpkgs/unstable#function-library-lib.strings.replicate),
  [`cmakeOptionType`](https://nixos.org/manual/nixpkgs/unstable#function-library-lib.strings.cmakeOptionType),
  [`cmakeBool`](https://nixos.org/manual/nixpkgs/unstable#function-library-lib.strings.cmakeBool),
  [`cmakeFeature`](https://nixos.org/manual/nixpkgs/unstable#function-library-lib.strings.cmakeFeature)
- `lib.trivial`:
  [`mirrorFunctionArgs`](https://nixos.org/manual/nixpkgs/unstable#function-library-lib.trivial.mirrorFunctionArgs)
- `lib.systems`:
  [`equals`](https://nixos.org/manual/nixpkgs/unstable#function-library-lib.systems.equals)

### Function changes {#sec-release-23.11-lib-function-changes}

- `lib.meta.getExe pkg` now gives a warning if `pkg.meta.mainProgram` is not set,
  but it continues to default to the derivation name.

>   Use `lib.meta.getExe' pkg "someBinary"` to avoid the warning and/or select a different binary.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Nixpkgs accepts PRs that set `meta.mainProgram` on packages where it makes sense.
  Use `lib.meta.getExe' pkg "some-command"` to avoid the warning and/or select a different executable.
```

Ideally we have better data: more mainPrograms.
Nits:
- commands tend to be lower snake case
- avoid "binary" because scripts aren't binaries (`/bin` is very very unfortunate)

Reviewer: `lib.meta.getExe` is annoying. Do we really want people to type that?
Sublibraries are cool, but everyone writes `lib.getExe`.

- [`lib.fixedPoints.fix`](https://nixos.org/manual/nixpkgs/unstable#function-library-lib.fixedPoints.fix) has improved documentation.

> - [`lib.lists.foldl'`](https://nixos.org/manual/nixpkgs/unstable#function-library-lib.lists.foldl-prime) has improved documentation.

Reviewer: This should be in a section of its own, because the functions did not change and mentioning it serves a different purpose.

- Docker now defaults to 24, as 20.10 is stopping to receive security updates and bug fixes after [December 10, 2023](https://github.com/moby/moby/discussions/45104).

- There is a new NixOS option when writing NixOS tests `testing.initrdBackdoor`, that enables `backdoor.service` in initrd. Requires `boot.initrd.systemd.enable` to be enabled. Boot will pause in stage 1 at `initrd.target`, and will listen for commands from the `Machine` python interface, just like stage 2 normally does. This enables commands to be sent to test and debug stage 1. Use `machine.switch_root()` to leave stage 1 and proceed to stage 2.

## Nixpkgs library changes {#sec-release-23.11-lib}

> ### Additions and improvements {#sec-release-23.11-lib-additions-improvements}

Author: @roberth I restructured it into just two sections instead now, one of them is here, and includes both new stuff but also improvements to stuff (intentionally not being specific what "stuff" is, so it can also include docs)

- `lib.systems`: New function:
  [`equals`](https://nixos.org/manual/nixpkgs/unstable#function-library-lib.systems.equals).
- [`lib.options`](https://nixos.org/manual/nixpkgs/unstable#sec-functions-library-options): Improved documentation for
  [`mkPackageOption`](https://nixos.org/manual/nixpkgs/unstable#function-library-lib.options.mkPackageOption).

  [`mkPackageOption`](https://nixos.org/manual/nixpkgs/unstable#function-library-lib.options.mkPackageOption).
  now also supports the `pkgsText` attribute.

Module system:
- Options in the `options` module argument now have the `declarationPositions` attribute
  containing the position where the option was declared:
  ```
  $ nix repl -f '<nixpkgs/nixos>'
  [...]
  nix-repl> :p options.environment.systemPackages.declarationPositions
  [ {
    column = 7;
    file = "/nix/store/vm9zf9wvfd628cchj0hdij1g4hzjrcz9-source/nixos/modules/config/system-path.nix";
    line = 62;
  } ]
  ```
  Not to be confused with `definitionsWithLocations`, which is the same but for option _definitions_.
- Improved error message for option declarations missing `mkOption`

> ### Breaking changes and deprecations {#sec-release-23.11-lib-breaking-changes-deprecations}

Reviewer: Breaking changes should go first, not last.

- `lib.meta.getExe pkg` (also available as `lib.getExe`) now gives a warning if `pkg.meta.mainProgram` is not set,
  but it continues to default to the derivation name.
  Nixpkgs accepts PRs that set `meta.mainProgram` on packages where it makes sense.

>   Use `lib.getExe' pkg "some-command"` to avoid the warning and/or select a different executable.

Reviewer: Changes with a proper migration path (deprecations in logs, as well as good error messages) should be demoted to a section that almost all readers can skip, or just omitted.

- [`lib.lists.foldl'`](https://nixos.org/manual/nixpkgs/unstable#function-library-lib.lists.foldl-prime) now always evaluates the initial accumulator argument first.
  If you depend on the lazier behavior, consider using [`lib.lists.foldl`](https://nixos.org/manual/nixpkgs/unstable#function-library-lib.lists.foldl)
  or [`builtins.foldl'`](https://nixos.org/manual/nix/stable/language/builtins.html#builtins-foldl') instead.
- [`lib.attrsets.foldlAttrs`](https://nixos.org/manual/nixpkgs/unstable#function-library-lib.attrsets.foldlAttrs)
  now always evaluates the initial accumulator argument first.

Module system:
- `lib.types.string` is now fully deprecated and gives a warning when used.
- Now that the internal NixOS transition to Markdown documentation is complete,

>   `lib.options.literalDocBook` is has been removed after deprecation in 22.11.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  `lib.options.literalDocBook` has been removed after deprecation in 22.11.
```
